So, I found myself when I was doing
the One of the part earlier where I gave
myself the category name of Brian Holt.
I was trying to find where there was an
English, or there were there was a German
word for something and
not an English word for something.
So, I was like I can use SQL to find that.
You can use SQL to Find something that
has a German translation in a table but
does not have an English
translation in the same table.
How do you do that?
You are actually going to
join a table to itself.
So, you can do what's called a self join.
And I'm gonna show you how
to do that really quick.
So, reasonable question.
Let's say you run this multinational
movie database and you wanna go and
make sure that everything
has a translation in it.
You can write a query that said like, give
me all of the Italian things that don't
have English translations or vice versa.
So, I'm gonna select c1.category id.
C1 language As de
language or de lang.
So, we're gonna do C1 dot name as de name.
C2 to language as English name en-lang
And C2.name as en name.
So, it's a bunch of things
that we're selecting.
From categories names c1.
We're gonna do a LEFT JOIN because we're
trying to find things that have For
a language of de.
So, you wanna include those in the result
set but don't have an English translation.
So, you want to do a LEFT JOIN.
We can also get it done in
like a full OUTER JOIN.
And then we will be able
to see on both sides and
just check where things are null.
We're not gonna do that.
We're just looking for
things that have German words
that do not have English words.
So, LEFT JOIN category names again.
And we're just referencing the same table.
There's no special magic to self joins.
We're just calling it something else.
And we have two versions
of the same table.
On C1 dot category
id = c2.category id.
And C2.language= en,
Where C2 dot language Is NULL.
And C1.language is German, right?
And we'll limit that to 20 or
something like that.
So what I did, is I asked the question,
let's just break it.
I recognize this is weird and confusing
to look at a table Adjoining to itself.
But I joined the category tables to itself
and on once on the left side I have
all German categories on the right
side I have all English categories.
And I'm asking, join them together.
Wherever there is both an English name and
a German leg,
eliminated from the result set.
Leave me with only things that
have a German translation and
what you are not able to find
an English translation for.
So, all of these things here
they exist in the category names
table with a German translation.
But there's not a second row to
represent the English translation of it.
So, this is easier to read.
Just talking about it one more time.
I'm treating this,
as far as PostgreSQL cares these are two
separate tables It does not care
that it's actually the same table.
So, that's why we have C1 and C2.
The first thing what I do where here,
I make sure that everything that is in
the result set from the from from this C1.
This is just German words in
the category names table.
So, my first result set.
My first table, if you will,
is just German words.
I am left joining the table.
C2 ignore that it's the same thing.
And in this set over here,
it's just English words.
Just German words just English words,
right?
And then joining them on the category id.
So, it's gonna join everything
together and I'm saying eliminate
where C2 is no, that means it
came in from left join, right?
So, that there was a German word, and
there was no English word for it.
Which means that there was
no translation for it.
Little mind bending, but
does that make sense?
Yeah, Mark.
>> Could you not do that
with the sub-group?
>> You would still have a join.
So, no I don't think you could no matter
what somewhere you're gonna have to
have a join.
To be really clear about this,
this took me some time of me staring at my
computer's like, how am I gonna do this?
So, that was a fun little adventure and
joins.
Nothing here is anything that
you haven't seen before,
it's just weird cuz it's the same thing.